# [Ví dụ cơ bản cho 12 thì]

## 01. Thì hiện tại đơn
* She often makes deliciout meals.
* They do the homework on Monday.
* Hoa washes her hair every day.
* The police catch robbers.
* She doesn't speak English.
* Do Nam anh Hoa go to work by by bus every day ?

## 02. Thì hiện tại tiếp diễn
* Her dad is watering some tress in the garden
* Look! The car is moving so fast.
* I am not staying at home at the present.
* Jim isn't working in his office now.
* Are you reading a book right now ?

## 03. Thì hiện tại hoàn thành
* Has Linda paid money for your mother ?
* Wait a minute, please ! I have finished my lunch.
* Kitty hasn't come here for a very long time.
* I have worked at KD company for three years.

### Viết lại câu
* 1. This is the first time Tim went abroad.
  => Tim hasn't never gone abroad before.

* 2. Anna started driving 1 month ago.
  => Anna has driven for 1 month.

* 3. They began drinking beer when it started to rain.
  => They have druck beer when since it started raining.

* 4. She last had my hair cut when she left him.
  => She hasn't cut her hair since she left him.

* 5. The last time Sana kissed me was 3 months ago.
  => Sana hasn't kissed me for 3 months.

## 04. Thì hiện tại hoàn thành tiếp diễn
* My best friend has been learning French since September.
* Hoa has been reading this book since last night.
* He hasn't been studying for the exam.
* Has he been studying for the exam ?

## 05. Thì quá khứ đơn
* My dad boutght a new car last month.
* It was sunny yesterday.
* My family and I saw a horror movie last night.
* In 1991, we moved to another city.
* She didn't go to the church 3 days ago.
* I played soccer last Sunday.
* My friend made tow cakes tow day ago.
* When did they get the first award ?
* What time did they get up this afternoon ?
* How was Jimin yesterday ?
* Were they happy last holiday ?
* How did you get there ?

## 06. Thì quá khứ tiếp diễn
* Lisa was swimming in the sea when the rain started.
* For the first two days of my holiday I was staying with my family.
* My sister was watching TV when he got home.
* I didn't play soccer yesterday.
* Did you play soocer yesterday ?

## 07. Thì quá khứ hoàn thành
* When I arrived Kathy had gone away.
* By the time I met you, I had worked in that company for five years.
* Sunny had studied in Korea before she did her masters at Harvard.
* Had the film ended when he arrived at the cinema ?

### Viết lại câu dựa vào từ cho sẵn
* 1. Kai had gone home before we arrived.
  => After Kai had gone home, we arrived.

* 2. We closed the door, then we took a look around the shops.
  => Before we took a look around the shops, we had closed the door.

* 3. The light had gone out before they got out of the station.
  => When they got out of the station, the light had gone out.

* 4. After Lam had explained everything clearly, we started our work.
=> By the time we started our work, Lam had explained everything clearly.

* 5. My sister had watered flowers in the garden by the time my mother came home.
=> Before my mother came home, my sister had watered flrowers in the graden.

## 08. Thì quá khứ hoàn thành tiếp diễn
* Yesterday, my dad said he had been stopping smoking for 2 months.
* We had been talking on the phone when the rain poured down.

## 09. Thì tương lai đơn
* I will help her take care of her children tomorrow.
* My mom won't go out if it ranins
* Will you come to work tomorrow ?
* Will you bring please me a cup of milk ?
* Will the caterpillar turn into a pretty butterfly soon ?

## 10. Thì tương lai tiếp diễn
* Tomorrow afternoon, Jennie will be building a new website.
* This time next month, most people will be using the Internet for entertainment.
* We wil be climbing the mountain at this time next Sunday.
* We will be playing soccer at the time tomorrow with our friends.
* Halan will be studying abroad by the time she graduate next year.
* The children will be living in Ho Chi Minh city for 3 weeks.
* They won't be studying at 10 a.m tomorrow.
* They won't be having lunch together when you come tomorrow.
* Will she be doing the housework at 9 p.m tomorrow ?

## 11. Thì tương lai hoàn thành
* Susan will have finished her homework before 9 o’clock this evening.
* I will have done the job before the boss comes tomorrow.
* If Hana doesn’t hurry, they we have left before she comes.
* We will have done the washing by 9 o’clock. (do)

## 12. Thì tương lai hoàn thành tiếp diễn
* By the end of the week she will have been working here for 5 months.
* By the end of this month they will have been living together for 7 years.
* By midnight Jim will have been playing this computer game for 48 hours.
* 5. She will have been studying Korean Culture for 4 years by the end of this year.
* Will they have been talking for an hour by the time her boyfriend comes back ?